    Title: Lab 17
    Date: 2019-11-05T00:00:00
    Tags: IN PROGRESS

<!-- more -->

## Splitting Strings

Lab 17 started out by looking at splitting strings. We used an example of parsing a CSV file to explore splitting a string by newline character (`\n`) and comma (`,`). The Python string class has a built-in function `.split('')` which accepts a character to split on. We can call `string.split(',')` or `string.split('\n')` to accomplish the task for part 1. Python also has a built-in function `splitlines` which is a shorthand for calling split with the newline character.

## Regular Expressions

After exploring string splitting we started looking into regular expressions. We started out by looking at replacing the word *ROAD* in a string with *RD.*. We quickly learned that there are limitations such as in the case of the word *BROAD*. We explored different techniques to remedy this such as only replacing the last word if it's road but found the string *100 BROAD ROAD APT. 3* would break that. We then looked at replacing the word road only if it was surrounded by spaces. This perfectly sequed into looking at the regex *domain specific language* to find occurances of a given word or phrase in a string.

## Stripping Quotes

The first example of using regex we looked at was striping quotation marks out of columns in our example CSV file. This was accomplished using the following regex: `r'^"?([^"]+)"?$'`. This is extremely cryptic at first glance but makes sense after some decoding. The `^` tells the parser to make sure the result starts at the beginning of the line and `$` tells it to make sure the result ends at the end of the line. The `"?` then tells the parser to look for commas but not to worry if they aren't there. This is because we can have columns without commas. Next we have `([^"]+)`. The parenthesis tells the parser to group together everything between them. We can access this group later to get our desired string. Finally, `[^"]` tells the parser to include any character except for quotation marks. This regex allows us to retrieve just the data between quotes to return in our parsed data.

To use a regex in Python we can compile it using `strip_regex = re.compile(r'^"?([^"]+)"?$')` and then parse the desired string with `result = strip_regex.search(string)`. This will search the string for occurences that match the regex and return all groups found. We can finally access our desired group with `result.group(1)`. This returns the first (only in our case) group found in the string.

## Handling Quoted Commas

Building on the quote stripping done in the last part, we now want to parse the CSV data but ignore commas that are between quotation marks. We built this regex to parse 3 columns since that is what the test data contains.

```regex
split_regex = re.compile(
        r'''^   # start
        ("[^"]*"|[^,]+)  # first column
        ,
        ("[^"]*"|[^,]+)  # second column
        ,
        ("[^"]*"|[^,]+)  # third column
        $''',
        re.VERBOSE
    )
```

This regex is very complicated. Because regex strings can get complicated Python allows us to pass verbose strings. Telling the compiler that the string is verbose will have it ignore whitespace and comments. This allows us to document and improve the readability of the expression while still getting the data we need with a complicated expression. The expression we created is duplicated three times but the duplicated part is telling the parser to search for either a column starting and ending with quotation marks or find a column that is just delimited by commas.

## Parsing More Columns

Lab 17 finished up by taking the regex created in the previous part (`r'("[^"]*"|[^,]+)'`) and applying it to an unknown number of columns. This was accomplished by using the regex library's function `findall`. The find all function takes a regex and searches a string for all occurences that match instead of the first like `search`. Calling `strip_regex.findall()` returns a list of matching strings that we could then return in our `split_csv` function.

