    Title: Lab 13
    Date: 2019-10-17T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

<!-- more -->

## Timers

Lab 13 started out looking at asynchronous programming in JavaScript. We looked at the `setTimeout` function which takes in a callback function and a time to wait. The function then waits the specified amount of time and then calls the desired function. This allows us to imitate a sleep function call. This does have drawbacks though. Since JavaScript runs asynchronously it will run code that is sequentially after the `setTimeout` call, which may cause some order of operations errors. We used this "sleep" function to print out an increasing number of `*` to the screen to imitate a progress bar.

After implementing the progress bar with `setTimeout` we were introduced to `setInterval` and `clearInterval`. These functions are used to set up a recurring timer that calls the function every x milliseconds. We used this to set up a function to draw our progress bar to the screen and had it called every 100ms. Inside of this function we then had to implement a check to see if the desired number of iterations were completed and clear the interval and print *all done!* when true.

## Overloading toString

The next part of this lab looked at overloading methods. We took our *VillageState* class from lab 12 and overloaded the `toString()` function to print out more than `[object Object]`. We printed out a grid of places with the location of the robot denoted as the number of parcels remaining.

## Animating the map

The final section of this lab combined the knowledge learned in the previous parts. We took the `toString` function created in part 4 as well as a modified version of `runRobot` from lab 12 and used it to animate the progress of a robot delivering parcels.

*Why does the last part where the robot wanders around with one parcel, typically take so long?* The last part of the parcel delivery typically takes so long because it has to path to the final place. Since our robot is random, it can keep bouncing between the same two places and end up not visiting the final place for a while.

