    Title: Lab 11
    Date: 2019-10-10T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

## Array Methods

The first part of this lab looked a *higher order methods* that can be used on arrays. We looked at `map` and `filter`. Both of these operate similar to their Racket couterparts. Another function we looked at was `reduce`. This function works similar to `for/fold` in Racket in that it takes a list and performs the desired operation on the list to return a single result, such as *sum* or *average*. We also looked at `forEach` which is a succinct way of writing a for loop by calling the `forEach` function and passing it a *lambda* function to perform against each element in the array.

## Flatten

The next part of this lab looked at using the `reduce` and `concat` methods to create a reduce function. The goal of this task was to take an array that might contain sub-arrays and extract those sub-arrays into the main array. This only had to work for one level of nesting for the lab. This was fairly straight-forward and required using `reduce` to iterate over the elements and using `concat` to add each element to the final array. One point that had me stuck for a while was not realizing `reduce` could take in an initial value. I spent time trying to figure out how to create my final array initially until I realized I could just pass an empty array to my `reduce` function and then just `concat` each element to the array. `concat` is a handy function because it is smart enough to recognize if the passed argument is a list or any other object and only extracts elements if the argument is list. This made my implementation extremely simple.

## JSON

Next we looked at parsing JSON. We were given a function `read_json_file` which we used to load in the JSON data from the file *ancestry.json*. We were then tasked with creating a function to take in a person's name and return data about them if they exist. This required iterating over the arrayof data loaded from the file and then performing a lookup of the `name` attribute of each object and comparing it against the provided name. I chose to use a `forEach` loop as learned in the previous part to iterate over the data.

## Methods

This part of the lab looked into methods. Methods are simply functions assigned to attributes of an object. We explored different ways of creating a *Time* object. This object has `hours` and `minutes` as properties and `plus` as a method. The first way of doing this we looked at was creating a function that created the plus function as variable and returned it along with the hour and minute properties. We then looked at prototypes. Protypes allows us to modify the attributes of an object. We used this to create a `Time(hours, mins)` function and then modify the functions prototype to include the `plus` method. Finally, we used the `class` keyword. This allowed us to create an object with a constructor and methods. This was extremely similar to how Java handles classes.

## Memoization

The final section of this lab introduced memoization. Memoization is an optimization technique that makes use of a cache to speed up read times for commonly accessed data.

Running `ancestry.json` time test case: The first lookup: 0,0 took ~1.5ms. Each subsequent lookup took ~0.010ms. This is considerable faster.

Running `big.json` time test case: The first lookup 0,0 took ~1.5ms. Future lookups took less time like in the `ancestry.json` but as more and more lookups took place, the lookup time decreased. The last tests took ~0.001ms. This is considerably faster than the first lookup and even the lookup times in the `ancestry.json` tests.

After this test we took our code written in `ancestry.js` and updated it to use a cache. We also copied `ancestry.time.js` to `memoize.time.js` and updated it to use our new `memoize.js` with cache. Rerunning the `ancestry.json` test had noticable speed increases. Instead of taking ~0.010ms, calls were now taking ~0.003ms. Much faster. Running tests with `big.json` had similar improvements in the first iterations but eventually got back to ~0.001ms towards the end.
