    Title: Lab 16
    Date: 2019-10-31T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

<!-- more -->

## List Comprehension

Lab 16 started out looking at list comprehension. List comprehension is a way of creating lists from for loops. List comprehension does not provide any new functionality, but rather makes existing loops look cleaner. Any for loop that creates an array can be converted into list comprehension but it works best for shorter ones since it condenses it into a single line. It can look messy with more complex loops. The following statements are equivalent. The latter is obviously much cleaner.

```python
result = []
for i in range(1, 10):
	result.append(i*i)
return result
```

```python
return [i*i for i in range(1, 10)]
```

A simpler way to summarize list comprehension is to say it is a nicer way of writing `map` statements.

```python
return map(lambda i: i*i, range(1,10))

# equivalent to

return [i*i for i in range(1, 10)]
```

## Dictionary Comprehension

The next part of the lab looked at dictionary comprehension. Dictionary comprehension is nearly identical to list comprehension except that it uses key-value pairs instead of just a value. The following statements are equivalent.

```python
result = {}
for i in range(1, 10):
	result[i] = i*i
return result
```

```python
return {i: i*i for i in range(1, 10)}
```

## Filtered List Comprehension

After introducing list and dictionary comprehension we looked at using filtering. List comprehension accepts an if statement which determines whether or not to include a given value in the output. We took this knowledge and recreated the *sieve* function originally written in Racket for assignment 1 using filtered list comprehension.

```python
def drop_divisible(n, lst):
	return [i for i in lst if i == n or i % n != 0]
```

## String Formatting

This lab finished by looking at string formatting. Python allows us to construct a string with "wildcard" characters (`{}`) and then pass it a list of arguments to replace the wildcards with. This string formatting allows numbering which allows us to reuse arguments multiple times in a formatted string. We explored this by taking a string constructed using the `+` operator and rebuilding it using string formatting.

```python
print(1 + "\t" + 23)

# equivalent to

print("{0}\t{1}".format(1, 23)
```

