    Title: Lab 15
    Date: 2019-10-29T00:00:00
    Tags: IN PROGRESS

<!-- more -->

## Reverse Polish Notation

The purpose of this lab is to explore [Reverse Polish Notation (RPN)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_Polish_notation) and build a calculator to evaluate RPN expressions. RPN is a form of writing mathematical expressions where the operator _(+ - \* / ^)_ is written after the two values. The ultimate goal is to have our calculator read in expressions line by line until the *quit* command is given. This will be accomplished by using a stack to keep track of values.

Complete list of commands the calculator will evaluate with the values a and b on the stack:

1. _+_ - add a and b (a+b)
2. _-_ - subtract b from a (a-b)
3. _/_ - divide a by b (a/b)
4. _\*_ - multiply a by b (a\*b)
5. _^_ - raise a to the power of b

This lab follows the test-driven development methodology so the test cases were given at the start of each section and the task was to complete the code to pass each test.

### Numbers

We started out by creating a simple function to manage a stack. We created a function `process` that would take in an expression and evaluate it. The only operation so far is to push the integer value onto the stack.

### Arithmetic

The next part of the lab expanded the process function to evaluate the arithmetic operators _+, -, /, \*, and ^_. Python does not support switch cases so this task was completed using if / elif / else blocks. Functionality was easy to implement by popping the top two values off the stack and pushing the result back onto the stack. The lab didn't specify whether error checking was required so the program assumes there are a valid number of values on the stack.

### Clear

The test cases we were given built upon each other and expected the top of the stack to be the result of the previous test. This worked fine since pytest runs tests sequentially but we want to make our tests independent. We can accomplish this by modifying our process function to clear the stack when the string "clear" is given. We then modified our tests to clear the stack and then set their stack values before performing the desired operations.

### Stack Manipulation

After implementing the arithmetic operations and clear operations, we had some more stack manipulation functionality to add:

1. _dup_ - duplicate the top value on the stack
2. _pop_ - discard the top value on the stack
3. _swap_ - swap the top two values on the stack

The Python list data structure has a `pop()` function which made the pop expression trivial. Duplication was easy as python allows negative indexing. This allowed *dup* to be accomplished with `stack.append(stack[-1])`. Swap was also straight forward as it simply required taking the top two values popped off the stack and pushing them back on in the reverse order.

### Output

The next part of the lab looked at mimicing print functionality. Since we are not printing out to the terminal, we modified the `process` function to return the top value on the stack. As a result of testing this we learned that Python returns the value `None` when no value is explicitly returned. This appears to be similar to the void return type in statically typed languages and like the undefined return type in JavaScript.

### Processing Lists of Operations

Now that the process function is fleshed out, it is time to combine it into a function that can process an unknown number of operations. To do this we created a function `process_list` that takes in a list of expressions to evaluate and returns the output of the calls. This consisted of iterating over the list of expressions and calling our `process` function for each. The result of each call was then added to a list and returned at the end to mimic printing the results. We finished this function by having it check for the *quit* command and halting operation at that time. This meant that any additional expressions after the quit would not be evaluated.

### Working with Files

This lab finished by looking at using input files. We were given three test files containing expressions and used Python's `sys.stdin` to read in the date. We then piped in the file with `python3 rpn.py < a.in`. Reading in the data from a file makes it easier to do repeated tests instead of having to type in the data each run.

