    Title: Lab 10
    Date: 2019-10-08T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

## JavaScript Objects

The first part of this lab looked at objects. We learned that they are similar to mutable hashmaps in other languages such as Racket.

## Deep Comparison

Next we looked at deep comparison. We werer tasked with creating a function that recursively checked JavaScript objects for equality. This was a little challenging since we wanted to return if a value was equal but needed to know if a result is not equal while iterating over properties of an object. This required keeping track of which properties are not equal and then flipping the result at the end.

## JavaScript Arrays

This part of the lab looked at using arrays in JavaScript. We created a function that took in two numbers and created an array the contained all numbers between and including the values. This involved using for loops and JavaScript array's `push(value)` function to add to the array. We then created a sum function to total the values in an array. This was a simple exercise that made use of the `foreach` function.

## Variadic Functions

The final part of this lab introduced the concept of variadic functions. Variadic functions allow us to pass different numbers of parameters to functions. We used this knowledge to expand on our range function to take in a step parameter. We made this parameter optional by giving it a default value: `function range(start, end, step=1)`. To make this work for negative steps I had to make a conditional to switch between two for loops. For the positive step, the loop broke when i was greater than end; for a negative step, the loop had to break when i was less than end.

