    Title: Lab 18
    Date: 2019-11-07T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

<!-- more -->

## Counter

Lab 18 started with looking at generators. Generators are a way of delaying function evaluation, usually to preserve memory.  The following code is an example of a simple generator. The purpose of this function is to return sequential incrementing numbers. The key is that it only returns one number at a time. The keyword `yield` tells the interpreter to return the desired value and then pause execution. The caller of the function recieves the value and then uses the function `next(counter)` to get the next value from the generator.

```python
def make_counter(x):
	while True:
		yield x
		x += 1
```

Since generators can seem complex at first, we looked at closures to attempt to demystify generators. Closures are essentially functions that return other functions. Below is the `make_counter` example rewritten as a closure. The the outer function creates a local variable `count` and then returns the inner function `counter`. The inner function starts off by using a new keyword `nonlocal`. This keyword tells the function to look up in scope and get a reference to the variable count in the outer function instead of creating a new variable count. Doing this allows the inner function to read and write to that variable. This is an important part of closures because it allows us to save data since the inner function is reset everytime it is called. The final piece of the puzzle to recreate a generator with a closure is to create a new variable equal to the value of count. The count variable is then incremented and then the new variable returned. This allows us to return the value of count and store the incremented value for the next call.

```python
def make_counter(x)
	count = x:
	def counter():
		nonlocal count
		retval = count
		count += 1
		return retval
	return counter
```

## Fibonacci

After learning about generators and closures we attempted to create a closure-generator to generate the Fibonacci sequence. This implementation was very similar to the previous example except for the conditional return. Instead of infinitely returning values we wanted to stop when a max value had been exceeded. This was accomplished by checking the a value and returning None if it exceeded the max.

```python
def fib(max):
	a, b = 0, 1
	def next():
		nonlocal a, b
		retval = a
		a, b = b, a + b
		if retval < max:
			return retval
		else:
			return None
```

## Sieve

Back to sieve. For this part of the lab we looked at the implementation of sieve created in Lab 16. The goal this time was to take the list comprehension used in `drop_divisible` and replace it with a generator.

```python
drop_divisible(n, lst):
	return [x for x in lst if x == n or x % n != 0]
```

```python
drop_divisible(n, lst):
	for x in lst:
		if x == n or x % n != 0:
			yield x
```

## Performance Comparison

The goal of the final part of this lab was to compare the time and memory usage by the list comprehension and generator implementations of `drop_divisible` from the previous part. This was accomplished by adding the following code snippet to both `sieve.py` and `sievegen.py`.

```python
if __name__ == '__main__':
	primes = sieve(500000)
```

`time python3 sieve.py`
```
real	0m12.352s
user	0m12.205s
sys	0m0.063s
```

`time python3 sievegen.py`
```
real	0m0.058s
user	0m0.033s
sys	0m0.008s
```

Timing the execution of these yielded very surprising results. The generator appears to run orders of magnitude faster than the list comprhension. This was too suspicious so we looked further into it. Printing out the return values of the list comprehension and generator implementations revealed that the generator implementation only returns a generator object that is then used to get values. This explained the near instant execution time. We attempted to remedy this by running the returned generator through a list comprehension expression to get the real value.

`time python3 sievegen.py`
```
real	0m14.491s
user	0m14.391s
sys	0m0.013s
```

This revealed some more believable result. This test demonstrates using the generator is 2 seconds slower than the original sieve using list comprehension.

