    Title: Lab 7
    Date: 2019-09-26T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

<!-- more -->

## Macros

This lab started out looking at macros in Racket. Macros in racket have the appearance of functions, however they support short-circuit evaluation. This improves performance of these functions.

### Redefining and

This section of the lab looked at redefining the `and` function using macros. To do this we used the `define-syntax-rule` call. This allows us to create new evaluation functions. The first example used to demonstrate this was redefining and. To do this we created a new syntax rule that used an if condition to check if a and b are true.

```racket
(define-syntax-rule (And a b)
  (if b a #f))
```

### Redefining or

This section of the lab looked at redefining the `or` function using macros. Using the new  knowledge and example of And from the previous section we redefined or using if. To do this we check if b is true and return it, otherwise, return a. This guarantees that if either value is true, the statement will return true.

```racket
(define-syntax-rule (Or a b)
  (if b b a))
```

## Pattern Matching

The next part of the lab looked into matching. The `match` keyword applies an expression to each element in a list. Functionality is similar to the `map` keyword. We looked at an example that applied the subtract 1 function to each element in a list and then checked the result.

We then looked at `let` and `let*`. `let` evaluates and expression and stores it in the target variable. `let*`, on the otherhand, functions the same as let but takes in a list of arguments and each sequential expression has access to the variables created or assigned by the previous assignments.

Using our new knowledge of `match` and `let*`, we created a new function called `let-transformer` that uses `match` and `let*` to mimic the functions created in the previous parts of this section. I didn't complete the rest of this lab because it was too hard.

