    Title: Lab 2 Journal
    Date: 2019-09-10T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

# Git Tutorial

## More Git

Lab 2 started with a continuation of the git tutorial. We started by looking at `git grep`. By default, frog inserts a disqus link into auto-generated posts. We used `git grep` to find these links in the post template and remove them. This was also used as another opportunity to practice creating git commits by addomg and commiting our changes.

## Frog Cleanup

When `raco frog -bp` is run it generates a lot of files that it uses to run the blog. We learned that there is a command `raco frog --clean` that can be used to clean up these generated files. We removed these files and the committed our changes.

## Peer Review

For the next part we partnered up to learn about `git log`. `Git log` is a tool that can be used to view the history of a repository in the command line. Git only shows the summary when the command is run. To view a more detailed output we learned about `git log -p`. This command shows the entire diff of the commit along with the commit message. We also learned about `git log --stat --summary`, which shows detailed information about files added, modified, and deleted.

# Racket Tutorial

Finally, something interesting! In this section we start learning about the Racket programming language. We started out by creating a new folder for our lab in `/labs/L02` and making a Racket program `hello.rkt` to print out Hello, World! To run our program we called `racket hello.rkt`. 

```racket
#lang racket
(display "Hello, World!\n")
```

After learning how to create and run a Racket program from the terminal we moved on to DrRacket. DrRacket is a Racket specific IDE that integrates a text editor and interactive terminal into the same window.

The next portion of this lab involved following the [Racket Quick Start Tutorial](https://docs.racket-lang.org/quick/index.html).

## New Concepts

- *expressions*: an expression is anything entered into the terminal that Racket interprets. i.e. value, string, function, etc.
- *functions*: in Racket functions are called differently than in other languages. Parenthesis are put before the expression and there are no commas, only spaces, between arguments.
- *definitions*: a definition is a way to assign data to a 'variable'. `(define x 7)` or `(define c (circle 10))` are examples of defining a static value and a function to a new name.
- *comments*: comments in Racket are designated by using a `;`
- *local binding*: local binding is like define but exclusive to a single function and it's children. `let` and `let*` are two ways to form local binding.
- *functions are values*: In Racket a function is just a value that can be called and evaluated.
- *lambda functions*: lambda functions are functions that are passed and used in functions but not bound to a value.

```racket
(define (rgb-series mk)
  (vc-append
    (series (lambda (sz) (colorize (mk sz) "red")))
    (series (lambda (sz) (colorize (mk sz) "green")))
    (series (lambda (sz) (colorize (mk sz) "blue")))))
```

The above example uses a lambda function to perform an action without defining it first.
- *lists*: lists in racket can hold any combination of values. The `map` and `apply` expressions are functions that can be used to evaluate an expression and store the results in a list.
- *modules*: modules are a way to package export Racket expressions under a common name. i.e. `(provide rainbow square)`.

## Working with multiple git repos

In this final part we started by learning how to clone a repo. Using `git clone <repo_link> <folder_name>` will clone the desired repository into the folder named. Next we learned how to push from our cloned repository and pull on the original to see the changes.
