    Title: Lab 19
    Date: 2019-11-19T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

<!-- more -->

## Counters, Generators, and Classes

Lab 19 started out with an overview of special class methods in Python. We explored the `__next__()` function which is called whenever an instance of the class is passed to the `next()` function. The following example is a counter class that returns incrementing integers.

```python
class Counter():
	def __init__(self, x):
		self.x = x

	def __next__():
		self.x += 1
		return self.x - 1


counter = Counter(10)
print(next(counter))  # prints out 10
print(next(counter))  # prints out 11
```

Python has many other built-in class functions such as `__str__()`. This one acts similar to `toString()` such that it allows you to customize the string representation of a given class instead of only having the default representation.

## Fibonacci

With the overview from the previous section in mind, we were tasked with using `__next__()` to improve upon the Fibonacci generator created in lab 18. This involved basically copying the closure implementation from lab 18. The next function set a and b and then returned the pre-modification value of a. When the max value is reached we raise a `StopIteration` exception. This tells the next function that iteration is done and to gracefully stop.

```python
def __next__():
	if self.a < self.max:
		retval = self.a
		self.a, self.b = self.b, self.b + self.a
		return retval
	else:
		raise StopIteration
```

After implementing `__next__`, we explored the `__iter__` function. The `__iter__` function is important because it allows us to create lists without repetitively calling `next(object)`. With `__iter__` we can call `list(object)` and it will build an iterator object to automatically call `__next__` until `StopIteration` is hit. We can simply implement `__iter__` with the following:

```python
def __iter__():
	return self
```

There is a problem with this though. Calling `iter(object)` multiple times will not work because the object is not reset. This can be remedied by resetting the a and b values.

```python
def __iter__():
	self.a = 0
	self.b = 1
	return self
```

## Object Copying and Equality

The next part of this lab continued to build practice using built-in functions. We looked at a new operator `__eq__`. This is called whenever `==` is used. By default Python compares memory addresses of objects which isn't useful most of the time. We can use `__eq__` to override that behaviour and implement our own more useful comparison. To accomplish this I chose to compare each class attribute to the other object. We were tasked with making this work for compound expressions as well which contain nested expressions so this looks to simple. Fortunately, the `==` call is recursive so it will call `__eq__` on each object until it gets down to primative types. Super convenient!

```python
class Expr:
	def __init__(self, operator, left, right):
		self.operator = operator
		self.left = left
		self.right = right

	def __eq__(self, other):
		return (
			self.operator == other.operator
			and self.left == other.left
			and self.right == other.right
		)
```

## Arithmetic

The final part of this assignment involved expanding the Expr class created in the previous section to evaluate the expression. This seemed straight-forward but got a little complex by needing to recursively evaluate the expressions. Accomplishing this required checking the type of the left and right operators and recursively calling `eval()` on the operands until the were primatives and then working back up.

```python
def eval():
	left = self.left.eval() if isinstance(self.left, Expr) else self.left
	right = self.right.eval() if isinstance(self.right, Expr) else self.right

	if self.operator == '+':
		return left + right
	elif self.operator == '*':
		return left + right
```

