    Title: Lab 8
    Date: 2019-10-01T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

<!-- more -->

## Running JavaScript

We started out this lab learning how to run JavaScript code. We first ran the code in VSCodium. This was done by pressing `F5` to run the code through the debug console. After that we ran the code in Firefox using the built-in console. This is extremely similar to how we ran Racket code in DrRacket. The next way we learned to run our JavaScript code was in the terminal with node. Running `node hello-world.js` runs our code in the terminal. The final way we learned to run JavaScript was in the Node REPL. We can use `.load hello-world.js` to load and run our JavaScript code or run code straight in the REPL such as `1 + 1` or `"Hello " + "world!"`.

```javascript
console.log("Hello, World!");
```

## Translating Racket Expressions into JavaScript

The next part of this lab looked at how Racket compared to JavaScript. We took a list of Racket expressions and converted them to their equivalent JavaScript expressions. Most expressions were the same except for ordering. Racket puts the operator at the start and then passes the values as arguments  whereas JavaScript puts the operators between the values.

## Looping

This part of the lab looked at loops. We used a for loop to print out an incrementing number of # symbols. For loops in JavaScript are identical to their Java counterparts so this excercise was fairly easy.

```
#
##
###
####
#####
######
#######
```

## FizzBuzz

The final part of this lab looked at solving the famous fizz buzz problem. This wasn't a terribly tricky problem so I was able to accomplish it by creating a string and then appending Fizz or Buzz before printing it.

