    Title: Lab 4 Journal
    Date: 2019-09-17T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

<!-- more -->

## Compare and Contrast

In this first part we will be looking at statements in Racket and how they compare to other languages. I will be making these comparisons against the Java programming language.

```racket
#lang racket, #lang slideshow
```
These are similar to `import` in Java. `racket` and `slideshow` are both modules containing external code to be used in our code. Java import statements do the same thing to allow external code to be used in our code.

```racket
(+ 1 2)
```
This is similar to `1 + 2` in Java. The only difference with this is how the arguments are ordered. Java places operators between values whereas Racket places the operator at the start and passes the values are arguments.

```racket
(rectangle 10 10)
```
This is a function call. The rectangle function is being called with arguments of 10 an 10. Java has the same functionality of functions although the syntax is different. This would look like `rectangle(10, 10)` in Java.

```racket
(define r 10)
```
This is variable assignment. Racket is defining the variable r to the value 10. This can be accomplished in Java with `int r = 10`. Unlike Java, Racket doesn't require types so any expression can be assigned to a variable in Racket.

```racket
(define (square x) (rectangle x x))
```
This is our first departure from standard Java. Here this Racket function is defining a function that calls another function. This can be done in Java by creating a function that calls another function. It is not as neat as this though. Java implementation:

```java
private Object square(int x) {
	return rectangle(x, x);
}
```

```racket
(colorize (square 10) "red")
```

This function passes a function and a string to the colorize function. Java does not allow function parameters so this would not be as simple in Java.

```racket
(let* ([x 10 [y (+ x 10)]) (* x y))
```
This expression evaluates each expression in order and uses previously calculated values. The values of x and y are 10 and 20 and the product is 200. In Java this looks like:

```java
int x, y;
x = 10;
y = x + 10;
System.out.println(x * y);
```

## Functions as values

This next section looks at passing functions as values. We created a function that took a function as a parameter and called it with varied arguments. The first example called the function with `5`, `10`, and `20`. We rewrote this example to use the `'` operator to reduce repeated code. The `'` operator creates a new list from the expressions passed to it. After that we looked at an example that called the passed function with the numbers 1 to 100.

## Recursion

Part three looks at recursion in Racket. Our first example was making a factorial calculator. This required making recursive calls until 0 was reached, returning 1, and multiplying each level by the result returned below it. We then looked at some sample code that had a bug in it. The problem with the code was an infinite loop. The function was continuously called without removing any elements in the list. The solution is to call the function with `(rest lst)` instead of `lst` to exclude the first element.

## Scribble

The next section looked at creating a frog blog using Scribble. The first line in the Scribble file is `#lang scribble/manual`. This imports the scribble module for use while creating the document and allows us to use scripts to create the document instead of explicitly writing everything shown in the document. To use these fancy features we can use `@` to write Racket code. This allows us to use any valid Racket code in a Scribble file.

## Modules

The final part involved dealing with modules. We started by creating a module containing an function to print Hello World!. After creating this we created another file that required this module. To get this working correctly the module needed to `(provide hello)`, and the application needed to `(require "hello.rkt"`. Making a call in the application, `(hello)`, successfully printed out Hello World! Finally, we looked into unit tests more. We created a test that slept to simulate long running tests. This made the application considerably slower to run.

