    Title: Lab 12
    Date: 2019-10-15T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

<!-- more -->

## Representing a Graph

*What is const?* The `const` keyword is a way of creating an immutable variable. It is useful when you want to declare a variable that will never change.

In the first section of the lab we looked at creating a graph representation of a town using objects. We created an object with places as keys and a list of neighbours as the value. We then created test cases for the routes. Here we were introduced to the `jasmine.objectContaining()` test. This allows us to check if a value is contained in an object.

## Representing State

*What property of the VillageState data structure is emphasized in this section of the book?* The data structure property emphasized in this section of the book is the parcel property. The items inside of it are checked and added or removed.

*What "update" operation(s) in Racket does this remind you of?* This is reminiscent of the `set` operator in Racket.

The next section of the lab looked at classes. We copied a VillageState class with a move function. This move function would move from the current place to a new place if the path is valid. It would also drop off any packages destined for the new place. We then took sample code to run the move function and converted them into unit tests. We took the variable logged to the console and checked its value in a test.

## Testing the rando robot

The third part of this lab explored mock tests. Jasmine has a utility called a *spy*. The spy allows us to intercept calls to a function and record what they are called with. We started out by copying a `runRobot` function that uses a robot to move around our town and deliver packages. We then copied `randomPick` and `randomRobot` to use in this function. We then used spy to intercept calls made to `console.log` to check that it was called with the correct string. We used this to determine if our `runRobot` function completes successfully.

