    Title: Lab 9
    Date: 2019-10-03T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

## JavaScript equality and type coercion

This lab started looking at how JavaScript handles equality and type coercion. We looked at `==`, standard equality, which attempts to convert left and right operators to the same type before evaluation (e.g. "42" == 42 is true) and `===`, strict equality, which looks at the values as they are and compares them (e.g. "42" === 42 is false). This causes lots of errors when programmers want strict equality but use standard equality.

## JavaScript functions

The next section of this lab looked at functions. In JavaScript functions can be assigned to variables similar to define in Racket. Assignment (=) in Racket is different from binding (let, define) because assignment changes a value whereas binding creates an immutable variable. The `return` keyword is mandatory because it tells our program where the end of the function is and what value to return instead of assuming like Racket does. In JavaScript the difference between arrow functions and regular function assignment is that arrow functions don't inherit the parent bindings to `this`.

We finished this part of the lab by looking at function to add two numbers and created our own implementation of a function to multiply two numbers based on it.

```javascript
function mult(a, b) {
	var sum = 0;
	for (var i = 0; i < a; i++) {
		sum += b;
	}
	return sum;
}
```

## Node.js Modules

In this part of the lab we took our functions from the previous part and exported them. We then created a "driver" file to import and use the exported functions. This was accomplished with:

```javascript
exports.plus = plus;
exports.mult = mult;

var arith = require("./loop-arith.js");
console.log(arith.plus(2, 2));
```

## Jasmine

The next section of this lab looked at testing in JavaScript. We used the Jasmine framework. Jasmine allows us to run tests on our code. We used the Jasmine boilerplate along with `expect(x).toBe(y)` where x is the input and y is the output. We then used the nyc module (`nyc jasmine`) to run our tests and generate code coverage.

```javascript
var arith = require("../loop-arith.js");

describe("mult", function() {
	it("1 * 2 = 2", function() {
		expect(arith.mult(1, 2)).toBe(2);
	});
});
```

## Recursion in JavaScript

The final section in this lab looked at recursion. We took our iterative implementations of plus and mult from earlier and rewrote them to be recursive. We then used our newly aquired testing knowledge to write test cases to test the recursive functions against their iterative versions.
