    Title: Lab 3 Journal
    Date: 2019-09-12T00:00:00
    Tags: IN PROGRESS

## Recursion

This lab started out looking at recursion. Before starting the recursion we learned about the **first and last** pattern in Racket. `First` returns the first element of the list and `last` returns the remaining elements in the list. This makes working with lists in recursion simple because you can pass the remaining elements to the recursive call cleanly. We then used this pattern to rewrite the *rainbow* function created in lab 2. This required modifying the function to take the list as a parameter and pop the first item off to colorize with.

## Unit Tests

The next section looked at unit tests. We were provided with the following file:

```racket
#lang racket/base

(define (my-+ a b)
  (if (zero? a)
    b
    (my-+ (sub1 a) (add1 b))))

(define (my-* a b)
  (if (zero? a)
    b
    (my-* (sub1 a) (my-+ b b))))

(provide my-+
         my-*)
```

The task was find the error, fix it, then add unit tests. The error was with the recursive multiplication call. It would keep doubling the result making the number grow incorrectly. The fix was to change the recursive call to drill down all the way to the bottom and add its way back up. 

```racket
#lang racket/base

(define (my-+ a b)
  (if (zero? a)
      b
      (my-+ (sub1 a) (add1 b))))

(define (my-* a b)
  (cond
    [(or (zero? a) (zero? b)) 0]
    [(= a 2) (my-+ b b)] ; Not needed. Prevents needless recursive call
    [(= a 1) b] ; Not needed. Prevents needless recursive call`
    [else (my-+ b (my-* (sub1 a) b))]))

(provide my-+
         my-*)

(module+ test
  (require rackunit)
  (check-equal? (my-+ 1 1) 2 "Simple addition: 1 + 1 = 2")
  (check-equal? (my-* 0 2) 0 "Simple multiplication: 0 * 2 = 0")
  (check-equal? (my-* 2 0) 0 "Simple multiplication: 2 * 0 = 0")
  (check-equal? (my-* 1 2) 2 "Simple multiplication: 1 * 2 = 2")
  (check-equal? (my-* 2 2) 4 "Simple multiplication: 2 * 2 = 4")
  (check-equal? (my-* 4 5) 20 "Simple multiplication 4 * 5 = 20"))
```

Adding unit tests required adding a new module test. This module uses `rackunit` to run the tests. Tests are created by calling the function with desired parameters and checking if the result is the same as the expected result. If the tests are run and there is no output the tests were successful. If a test case fails DrRacket will print out the expected value and the actual value to compare.
