    Title: Lab 1 Journal
    Date: 2019-09-05T00:00:00
    Tags: DONE

<!-- more -->

## Part 1

This lab started out learning about terminal file operations. We started out by creating and delting files and folders from the command line. This was rather pointless because these are skills learned in first year or elsewhere. Alright recap though.

## Part 2

After that recap we moved onto how to use frog. Frog is a racket program that turns a markdown document into an HTML web page. Kinda cool. We started by creating a new post for lab 1 which is this. This document is the journal for lab 1. This will be used for future labs and assignments to keep track of what's been done during each task.

Useful commands:

- ```raco frog --init``` (create project)
- ```raco frog -bp``` (start service)
- ```raco frog -n "Post Title"``` (create new post)

## Part 3

We started looking at git in this part. These next sections were a joke because I've been using git during my co-op work terms and am extremely familiar with it. Git is important because it allows us to keep track of when changes were made and by who. It also allows changes to be easily reverted if need be. We also read a page explaining git commit standards which is useful because a lot of developers I've worked with are trash at commit messages and what to commit. Hopefully this section will encourage others to reflect and become better users of version control.

## Part 4

We created a git repostiory in this part. Here we learned how to setup our git environments to include name and email in the commit messages. We then added our frog repository to the repository and committed it with a detailed commit message.

## Part 5

In the final part we learned about remotes and pushed our newly created repository to a version control server on UNBs network. This involved setting the UNB server as a remote and pushing to the origin.

This lab was an excellent review of knowledge I had already learned but nothing new was learned.

