    Title: Lab 14
    Date: 2019-10-24T00:00:00
    Tags: IN PROGRESS

<!-- more -->

## First Example

In this lab we started looking at the programming language Python. The first exercise we did was to copy the code for [`humansize.py`](http://www.cs.unb.ca/~bremner/teaching/cs2613/labs/L14/_humansize.py/) and learn how to run it. Python programs can be run from the terminal by calling `python3 <file_name>.py`. We also learned that calling just `python3` will open an interactive debugger. This allows us to run Python commands and see the result. This is similar to the Racket interpreter used in DrRacket.

## Pytest

The next part of the lab looked into using *pytest* to test the code from part 1. We started by copying an initial test file [`test_humansize.py`](http://www.cs.unb.ca/~bremner/teaching/cs2613/labs/L14/_test_humansize.py/). We then learned that pytest is called by running `pytest-3 test_<file_name>.py` in the terminal. We finished up this part by converting the following [print statements](http://www.cs.unb.ca/~bremner/teaching/cs2613/books/diveintopython3/your-first-python-program.html#optional-arguments) into test cases.

We can configure VSCodium to give us a UI to run our tests with the following steps:

1. Bring up the command prompt with `Ctrl + Shift + P`.
2. Run `Python: Configure Tests`.
3. Select *pytest* from the dropdown.
4. Point it towards the directory containing the test cases.

## Modules

Part 3 of this lab introduced modules in Python. Every file in Python is a module. We demonstrated this by creating `client.py` to import and use the `approximate_size` function from our `humansize` module. We also learned that code inside of ``` if __name__ == '__main__' ``` is only run when the file is called from the terminal. It isn't run when a module is imported.

```python
from humansize import approximate_size
approximate_size(1000, kilobyte_is_1024_bytes=False)

# or

import humansize
humansize.approximate_size(1000, kilobyte_is_1024_bytes=False)
```

## Docstrings

This part of the lab looked at docstrings and testing them. We looked at creating a `test_client.py` that checks if our `approximate_size` function has docstring. The doc string of a function can be accesed with `approxinate_size.__doc__`.

## Indentation

Part 5 looked at Python's indentation rules. We took the following code for FizzBuzz and properly indented it. Instead of using brackets to distinguish code block Python uses indentation. Indentation must be at a consistent level throughout the entire file or the interpreter will complain. We also added the missing "Fizz" case for the provided code.

```python
for i in range(1, 101):
if (i%3 == 0 and i%5 == 0):
print("FizzBuzz")
elif (i%5 == 0):
print("Buzz")
else:
print(i)
```

becomes

```python
for i in range(1, 101):
	if (i%3 == 0 and i%5 == 0):
		print("FizzBuzz")
	elif (i%3 == 0):
		print("Fizz")
	elif (i%5 == 0):
		print("Buzz")
	else:
		print(i)
```

## Exceptions

The final part of the lab looked at Exceptions. Exceptions are similar to Errors in Java and other languages. We explored exceptions by creating a function to divide two numbers.

```python
def fraction(a, b):
	return a/b
```

When run with `b = 0` the function will encounter a *ZeroDivisionError*. We modified this function to return the string *NaN* in that case. There are two ways to accomplish this:

Checking the value before the operation, or

```python
def fraction(a, b):
	if b == 0:
		return 'NaN'
	else:
		return a / b
```

Catching the error

```python
def fraction(a, b):
	try:
		return a / b
	except ZeroDivisionError:
		return 'NaN'
```

